=head1 NAME

kurila120delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.20

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.19 and Perl Kurila 1.20

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.20

Layout based syntax

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Layout

Layout can be used to make blocks and statements.
See L<kurilasyn/"Layout"> for a description of how it works.

=head3 Rationale

Clean and easy to read statements and block specification.

=head2 New syntax for loops which are executed at least once

Loops which are executed at least once now have syntax 
C<loop BLOCK while (EXPR)> and C<loop BLOCK until (EXPR)>.

=head3 Rationale

The C<loop> keyword indicates a new block, which works much better with
layout syntax.

=head2 Derefence can only be done using postfix dereference

Dereferncing can only be done using the C<< ->$ >>, and similar operators,
prefix dereferncing like C<${ ...}> does no longer work.

=head3 Rationale

Single simple dereference syntax.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut

 LocalWords:  lvalues paramter defintion
