=head1 NAME

kurila17delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.7

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.6 and Perl Kurila 1.7

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.7

=over 4

=item *

Block interpolation using C<{...}> inside double quoted strings

=item *

Numeric comparison operators renamed.

=item *

Interpolation independent of the delimiter

=item *

No-escaping within single quotes

=item *

Substitute modifier s///e is removed

=item *

Obligatory C<m> in front of matches.

=item *

Renamed readline operator C<< <> >> to C<< ~< >>

=item *

open must have a separate mode and filename

=item *

Removal of C<$]>

=back

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Block interpolation using C<{...}> inside double quoted strings

Inside double quoted strings C<{...}> are interpolated in double quoted strings.
They can also be used to evaluate code inside a replacement part of the substitute, for example
C< s/<<=(.*)>/{ eval $1 }/g >.

=head2 Numeric comparison operators renamed.

The numeric comparison operators < <= > >=, and <=> are renamed to +<, +<=,
+>, +>= and <+> respectively.

=head2 Interpolation independent of the delimiter

Single quotes don't have any special meaning when used as delimiters for other constructors, i.e. 
m'$a' is the same as m/$a/.

=head2 No-escaping within single quotes

Single quotes do not do any escaping. This includes not escaping C<\\> and C<\'>.

=head2 Substitute modifier s///e is removed

The subsitute modifieders s///e and s///ee to evaluate the replacement are no longer supported.
The new interpolating C<{...}> can be used instead.

=head2 Obligatory C<m> in front of matches.

/PAT/ is longer supported and instead m/PAT/ must be used.
Depending on the context a C</> will be interpreted as a divide operator or an error
will be raised.

=head2 Renamed readline C<< <> >> operator to C<< ~< >>

The readline operator C<< <FH> >> has been renamed to C<< ~< *FH >>.
There is no special syntax for ~<.
There is no default *ARGV, and *ARGV must be explictly given to ~<

=head2 open must have a separate mode and filename

open should always be used with separate mode and filename. Using open with 2-arguments
with a concatened mode and filename no longer works and gives an error.

=head2 Removal of C<$]>

The version variable $] has been removed. $^V (eq "kurila-1.7") or $kurila::VERSION (eq "1.7")
can be used instead


=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
