=head1 NAME

kurila114delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.14

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.13 and Perl Kurila 1.14

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.14

Continuing where the previous release stopped, this one makes the
built-in functions use arrays.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Built-in function using arrays

C<map>, C<join>, C<grep>, C<for>, C<sort>, C<reverse>, C<split>,
C<keys>, C<values>, C<..>, C<qw>, C<[[ ]]>, C<{[ ]}> all return arrays
and/or expect arrays as arguments instead of lists.

=head3 Rationale

These functions work natural on arrays.

=head2 Circular dependencies are not allowed

Requires a module which is still being compiled will produce an error.

=head3 Rationale

Prevents difficult problems with circular references

=head2 Error reporting reports error to the exact position, including character offset

All operations have specific location information, including the character position

=head3 Rationale

Makes debugging easier.

=head2 Removal overloading

Overloading has been removed.

=head3 Rationale

Prevents many difficulties associated wit overloading.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Memory leaks

Lists are used in a lot of places where arrays are probably more
appropriate.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Tied hashes with complex data

Tied hashes do not work correctly with complex data
structures. Assigning arrays or hashes to a value of tied hash might
behave strange.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
