=head1 NAME

kurila112delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.12

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.11 and Perl Kurila 1.12

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.12

Using a list in scalar context will raise an error

All variables must be declared or fully qualifyed as with C<use strict 'vars'>

C<eval BOCK> has been changed to C<try BLOCK>

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Using a list in scalar context will raise an error

If a list is used in scalar context an error will be raised. This can
happen both at compile and run-time. Using an array in scalar context
will still returns the number of elements of the array.

=head3 Rationale

Makes the change of non-automaticly expanding arrays easier.

=head2 All variables must be declared or fully qualifyed as with use
strict vars

Variables must be declared or fully qualified, like with C<use strict
'vars'>.

=head3 Rationale

Simplies things by always requiring C<use strict 'vars'> semantics

=head2 eval BOCK has been renamed to try BLOCK

The expression C<eval BLOCK> has changed to C<try BLOCK>.
C<eval EXPR> remains the same.

=head3 Rationale

Makes the distinction between the old C<eval BLOCK> and C<eval EXPR>
explicit.

=head2 Removal of the transliteration operator

The transliteration operator (C<tr///> or C<y///> has been removed.

=head3 Rationale

Barely used, and in almost all cases C<s///> can be used instead.

=head2 The magic variables C<$&>, C<$`> and C<$'> are removed.

The C<$^MATCH>, C<$^PREMATCH>, C<$^POSTMATCH> in combination with the
C</p> still work, and can be used instead

=head3 Rationale

Using them has serious performance penalties.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
