=head1 NAME

kurila115delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.15

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.14 and Perl Kurila 1.15

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.15

Lots of bug fixes and minor changes.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 blocks must be executed with C<do>

A block by itself is no longer allowed, C<do> can be used to make a block
by itself.

=head3 Rationale

For the next release C<{...}> is reserved to always make a coderef.

=head2 Lexical scoped C<$_> in C<for> and C<< while(~<$fh) >> blocks

A C<for> loop without a loop variable or a C<< while(~<$fh) >>,
introduces a lexical C<$_>, which is used as the loop variable.

=head3 Rationale

Less global C<$_> problems.

=head2 C<pos> and C<vec> use have an additional argument instead of use of lvalue.

C<pos> and C<vec> can not be used a lvalue, instead they accept an
additional parameter.

=head3 Rationale

As part of changing the assignment logic, all magic lvalues are to be removed.

=head2 Minor changes

=over 2

=item C<for> loops can only be used with arrays, not as a C-style for loop.

=item No calling implicit passing of @_ when calling a sub with C<&>.

=item C<do> can only be used to execute a block or a file, not to call a sub.

=item Code execution inside a string using C<{}> has been removed.

=item C<goto> can only be used to goto subroutines, not to go to a label.

=item The subroutine argument variable C<@_>, is now a lexical variable.

=back

=head2 Lots of bugfixes

The are lots of minor internal bugs fixed.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Tied hashes with complex data

Tied hashes do not work correctly with complex data
structures. Assigning arrays or hashes to a value of tied hash might
behave strange.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
