=head1 NAME

kurilaintro -- description of Perl Kurila

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 What is Perl Kurila?

Perl Kurila is a dialect of Perl. It is based upon Perl 5, mostly compatible.
Unlike Perl 6 which is a completely new language, Perl Kurila is an evolution
Perl 5. Currently they are almost the same, but this will change as Perl Kurila
evolves.

=head2 Why?

Keep Perl 5 alive, and not let new development be drowned by its burden of legacy features.
To have a more evolving language without being held back by backwards compatibility.
Because of backward compatibility Perl 5 can only be extended by adding more, making
it more complex. By creating a new dialect, we are free to have a more coherent Perl,
with cleaner internals.

=head2 Is Perl Kurila a replacement for Perl 5?

No. There is a lot of Perl 5 code. You can probably convert Perl 5 code to Kurila without
much problems, but if you are happy with Perl 5, you can stay using it.
Both can be installed at the same time.

=head2 Major changes compared to Perl 5

=over 4

=item *

Sigil invariant of value

=item *

Renaming numeric comparison operators

=item *

Easier quoting rules

=item *

Error objects, with default backtrace

=item * 

Added compilations subroutines, see L<compsub>.

=item * 

Lexical scoped byte vs codepoint semantics

=item *

Bit &, |, ^, ~ operator renamed to ^&^, ^|^, ^^^, ^~^

=item *

Strings are internally always encoded using UTF-8

=item *

String dereference will always result in an error

=item *

Removal of a lot of deprecated syntax, keywords, operators.
Including indirect object syntax, formats, <> as glob operator,
?PATTERN?, C<..> as flip-flop operator.

=back

=head2 Audience

Kurila has just started, so at the moment it is primary interesting
for people interested in experiments with the Perl language.
People interesting in continuing Perl 5, without all its legacy features,
who don't want to let Perl 5 become a white dwarf.

=head2 Goals

=over 4

=item Experimenting with the Perl language.

=item Removing ugly things.

=item Adding ugly things.

=item Changing old design decisions.

=item Readable, modifiable perl source.

=back

=head2 Compatibility

Kurila is not intended to be compatible with Perl 5.
There is the p5kurila convert script which does some basic conversion from Perl 5
to Perl Kurila, but it requires a modified perl5.

=head2 Development

Development is currently only done by Gerard Goossen. Using the git repository
at git://dev.tty.nl/perl

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<kurila111delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.11

=item L<kurila110delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.10

=item L<kurila19delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.9

=item L<kurila18delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.8

=item L<kurila17delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.7

=item L<kurila16delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.6

=item L<kurila15delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.5

=item L<kurila14delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.4

=item L<kurila13delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 1.3

=item L<kurila02delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 0.2

=item L<kurila01delta> What is new for Perl Kurila 0.1

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Gerard Goossen <gerard@tty.nl>
