=head1 NAME

kurila119delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.19

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.18 and Perl Kurila 1.19

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.19

Subroutines can be used as l-values.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Subs can be used as l-values

Subs declared using a formal paramter defintion like

 sub foo( = $x ) { ... }
 foo() = "value";

If the assignment is optional the sub can be used in combination with
a operator with modifies its argument.  For example:

 sub foo( ?= $x ) { ... }
 foo() += 3;

This will first call C<foo> twice, once without C<$x> and with
C<$^is_assignment> set to false, then again with the computed value
for C<$x> and with C<$^is_assignment> set to true.

=head3 Rationale

Intuitive syntax for setting values using subroutines.

=head2 Formal parameters

Subroutines can have formal parameters like C<sub foo($x, $y)> or C<sub
foo($x, @< $y)>. Actual parameters are mapped to formal parameters
similar pattern matching. The number of actual parameters is checked at
compile to match the number parameters expected.

=head3 Rationale

Expressive formal parameters. Allows compile-time argument checking.

=head2 C<local> does not set the operand to C<undef>

Using C<local> does automaticly reset the operand to undef. 

=head3 Rationale

Allows C<local> to be used on values which should not be reset to C<undef>.

=head2 C<STDOUT>, C<STDERR>, C<STDIN> renamed to C<$^STDOUT>, C<$^STDERR>, C<$^STDIN>

The standard file handle STDOUT, STDERR, STDIN are renamed to
$^STDOUT, $^STDERR and $^STDIN

=head3 Rationale

Reduce the use of globs.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut

 LocalWords:  lvalues paramter defintion
