=head1 NAME

kurila18delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.8

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.7 and Perl Kurila 1.8

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.8

=over 4

=item *

C<die> and C<warn> create C<error> objects

=item *

C<$SIG{__DIE__}> and C<$SIG{__WARN__}> renamed to C<${^DIE_HOOK}> and C<${^WARN_HOOK}>

=item *

Implicit C<local ${^DIE_HOOK} = undef> around an C<eval>

=item *

Minor language changes

=back

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 C<die> and C<warn> create C<error> objects

Die and warn now create C<error> objects. These include a full stack dump.
Use $@->message to get the error message.

=head3 Rationale

Having a complete stack trace makes debugging easier.

=head2 C<$SIG{__DIE__}> and C<$SIG{__WARN__}> renamed to C<${^DIE_HOOK}> and C<${^WARN_HOOK}>

The die and warn handlers have been renamed to ${^DIE_HOOK} and ${^WARN_HOOK}.
When called these functions hould receive as first argument an C<error> object.

=head3 Rationale

C<${^DIE_HOOK}> and C<${^WARN_HOOK}> are no signal handlers.
 
=head2 Implicit C<local ${^DIE_HOOK} = undef> around an C<eval>

Implicit C<local ${^DIE_HOOK} = undef> around an C<eval>

=head3 Rationale

Makes ${^DIE_HOOK} suitable for error reporting without interfering
with C<eval>.

=head2 Minor language changes

The operators C<lt>, C<le>, C<gt>, C<ge> have been removed.
lvalue subroutines are no longer allowed.
Single quotes (C<'>) are no longer allowed in names.
Depth-first method resolution is no longer supported.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
