=head1 NAME

kurila111delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.11

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.10 and Perl Kurila 1.11

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.11

New anonymous array and hash constructors: C<@(...)> and
C<%(...)>. The anonymous array/hash ref constructors C<[...]> and
C<{...}> have been removed. Thus C<{...}> is never interpreted as a
anonymous hash, but will always create a closure/block.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 New anonymous array and hash constructors: C<@(...)> and
C<%(...)>

There are two new operators C<@(...)> and C<%(...)> for creating anonymous
arrays and hashes, replacing the old anonymous array and hash ref
constructors C<[...]> and C<{...}>. C<@(...)> creates an anonymous
array, and C<%(...)> creates an anonymous hash.

=head2 Removal C<[...]> and C<{...}>

The anonymous array and hash ref constructors C<[...]> and C<{...}>
have been removed.  They can be replaced with the new array/hash
constructors: C<[...]> becomes C<\ @(...)> and C<{...}> becomes
C<\ %(...)>

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
