=head1 NAME

kurila118delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.18

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.17 and Perl Kurila 1.18

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.18

On the path of making the syntax more consitent.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 New operators C<+@+>, C<+%+>, C<@+:> and C<%+:>

The operators C<+@+> and C<+%+> are binary operators which join two
arrays respectively two hashes.  C<@+:> and C<%+:> are list
operators to join an array of arrays respectively join an array of
hashes.

=head3 Rationale

Expressive combining of array and hashes.

=head2 C<{ ... }> generated a coderef

C<{ ... }> generates a coderef. The sub has one optional argument
which is assigned to C<$_>.

=head3 Rationale

Easy generation of coderefs.

=head2 Removed C<goto>

C<goto> is removed.

=head3 Rationale

C<goto> is bad.

=head2 Comma after first argument

Special handling of the first arugment in case of a filehandle or
coderef has been removed. A comma is obligatory after the first
argument.  As a consequence print must have a filehandle as the first
argument.

=head3 Rationale

Consistent syntax function calls.

=head2 No default filehandle

The default filehandle is removed, function like print, eof must have
a filehandle.

=head3 Rationale

Less global variables.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
