=head1 NAME

kurila113delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.13

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.12 and Perl Kurila 1.13

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.13

Values passed to subroutines or elements of an array or hash are no
longer restricted to being a scalar, but can also be arrays or hashes.
Making it possible to use complete data structures without needing
references.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Values can be any type

A value can be a plain-value, array or hash. There are no distinctions
between. The sigils are meaningless, and don't indicate anything
containing the type

=head2 expand operator C<< < >>

Arrays are no longer automaticly expanded to a list. The expand
operator C<< < >> should be used to expand an array to a list.

=head2 Subroutines always return a scalar; C<wantarray> keyword removed

Subroutines always return a scalar, and behave as if called in scalar
context. As a consequence the C<wantarray> keyword has been removed.

=head2 New operators C<nelems> and C<nkeys>

C<nelems> returns the number of elements of an array. C<nkeys> returns
the number of keys in a hash.

=head2 Only Hashes can be tied

Scalars, arrays and handles can no longer be tied.

=head2 Forward subroutine declarations are no longer supported.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Extensive use of lists

Lists are used in a lot of places where arrays are probably more
appropriate.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Tied hashes with complex data

Tied hashes do not work correctly with complex data
structures. Assigning arrays or hashes to a value of tied hash might
behave strange.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
