=head1 NAME

kurila117delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.17

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.16 and Perl Kurila 1.17

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.17

Getting the value of a variable can't have any side effects.

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Renaming special variables

Special variables have been renamed and now all all the form $^NAME

=head3 Rationale

The names are descriptive. Frees to be used as operators.

=head2 Special variables are evaluated where declared.

Special variables like $1, $^HINTS are evaluated where declared.

=head3 Rationale

Prevents action-at-a-distance.

=head2 Removed 'tie'

All C<tie> functionality has been removed.

=head3 Rationale

Prevents action-at-a-distance.

=head2 Dynamic scope

A dynamic scope is added. It can be accessed using keyword
C<dynascope>. When a new scope is entered a C<dynascope> becomes a
copy of the current value, when the scope is leaved the C<dynascope>
is restored the the old value.  At the moment it is only used for
adding events to the end of a scope, by adding a sub-ref to the array
C<dynascope->{onleave}>.

=head3 Rationale

A more generic alternative for C<local>.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Self referential assignment problems

Assigning some value to a part of itself behaves unexpected.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
