=head1 NAME

kurila110delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.10

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.9 and Perl Kurila 1.10

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.10

=over 4

=item *

The sigil refers the the data type of the variable, instead of the data type of the
value. For example: @array[28] should be used instead of $array[28], and
%hash{'key'} instead of $hash{'key'}.

=item *

Slices are taken using C<[[...]]> and C<{[....]}> instead of using the sigil to indicate a slice.
i.e. C<@hash{["foo", "bar"]} instead of C<@hash{"foo", "bar"}>, and
C<@array[[1,2]]> instead of C<@array[1,2]>.

=item *

Curly braces are not allowed around variable names, i.e. $varname should be used instead
of ${varname}

=item *

An error is raised for C<$#array>

=back

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Sigil refering to the variable type.

The sigil refers the the data type of the variable, instead of the data type of the
value. For example: @array[28] should be used instead of $array[28], and
%hash{'key'} instead of $hash{'key'}.

=head2 Changed slice syntax

Slices are taken using C<[[...]]> and C<{[....]}> instead of using the sigil to indicate a slice.
i.e. @hash{["foo", "bar"]} instead of @hash{"foo", "bar"}, and
@array[[1,2]] instead of @array[1,2].

=head2 No curly braces allowed around variables

Curly braces are not allowed around variable names, i.e. $varname
should be used instead of ${varname}. Also names are allowed to start
with an C<^>, which refer to special variables, for example $^TAINT
instead of ${^TAINT}.

=head2 Error on C<$#array>

An error is raised for C<$#array>. To get the length of an array
C<scalar @array> should be used.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
