=head1 NAME

kurila19delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.9

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.8 and Perl Kurila 1.9

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.9

=over 4

=item *

Conversion of a reference to a string raises an error

=item *

New reference comparison operators \== and \!=

=item *

Integrate bleadperl changes upto Change 33541

=back

=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 Conversion of a reference to a string raises an error

When a reference is used as a string an error is raised.
dump::view can be used to view the variable.
ref::address can be used to get the address of the variable.

=head2 New reference comparison operators \== and \!=

There are two new operators \== and \!= which can be used to compare reference.
Both arguments to the operators must be references otherwise an error is raised.
\== returns true if both references refer to the same referent, false otherwise.

=head2 Integrate bleadperl changes upto Change 33541

bleadperl changes are integrated upto Change 33541

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
