=head1 NAME

kurila16delta - what is new for Perl Kurila 1.6

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes differences between Perl Kurila 1.5 and Perl Kurila 1.6

=head1 Highlights In Perl Kurila 1.6

=over 4

=item *

An error is raised if an undefined subroutine is called (Any AUTOLOAD subroutine is ignored).

=item *

v-syntax create 'version' objects.

=item *

v-syntax must be used to do version checks

=item *

If a globs is attempted to be stringified or numified an error is given.

=back



=head1 Core Enhancements

=head2 An error is raised if an undefined subroutine is called.

If you call a undefined subroutine and it isn't defined you get an error.
B<No> attempt to use AUTOLOAD is made. The same applies of course to method
calls: if the method isn't found an error is raised.

=head3 Rationale

Prevents all the problems associated with C<AUTOLOAD> 

=head2 v-strings create 'version' objects.

Use of v-string create version objects, i.e. C<v1.2.3> would be similar 
to C<version->new("v1.2.3")>. Use of numbers with multiple decimal dots (like
C<1.2.3>, thus without a 'v'), will give a compile error. There is no VSTRING type.

=head3 Rationale

Promotes the use of version object for versions.

=head2 v-syntax must be used to do version checks

The C<VERSION> in C< use Module VERSION LIST > and C< use Module VERSION > should be v-syntax,
i.e. a 'v' followed by a digit, anything else will not be seen as a version.

=head3 Rationale

Makes it more explicit that a version check is done.

=head2 Globs throw an error when stringified or numified.

There is a new function C<Symbol::glob_name($glob)> which returns the name
of the glob. Symbol::glob_name returns the name fully qualified, but without a leading '*'.
For example: C< Symbol::glob_name($^STDERR) eq "main::STDERR" >

=head3 Rationale

Makes finding glob stringification errors easier.

=head1 Modules and Pragmas

=head2 Removal of the modules AutoLoader, AutoSplit, SelfLoader, Encode::Encoder, FileCache, Object::Accessor, NEXT, Shell

Most of these modules don't work without AUTOLOAD, but there should be no reason to use them.


=head2 Adjustment for removal of AUTOLOAD

Many modules have small adjust, because of the removal of AUTOLOAD. Including ExtUtils::Constant
of which ExtUtils::Constants::WriteConstants should be used with C<PROXYSUBS => 1>.



=head1 KNOWN BUGS

=head2 Documentation

Documentation has not been updated for many of the changes for kurila.

=head2 Limited platform support

Perl Kurila has only been tested/build for x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi platform.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The F<INSTALL> file for how to build Perl Kurila.

The F<README> file for general stuff.

The F<Artistic> and F<Copying> files for copyright information.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Gerard Goossen <F<gerard@tty.nl>>.

=cut
