AUTHORS		List of authors
Byte/Byte.pm	Encode extension
Byte/Makefile.PL       Encode extension
CN/CN.pm		Encode extension
CN/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
Changes		Change Log
EBCDIC/EBCDIC.pm       Encode extension
EBCDIC/Makefile.PL     Encode extension
Encode.pm			Encode extension
Encode.xs		Encode extension
Encode/Changes.e2x		Skeleton file for enc2xs
Encode/Makefile_PL.e2x	Skeleton file for enc2xs
Encode/README.e2x		Skeleton file for enc2xs
Encode/_PM.e2x		Skeleton file for enc2xs
Encode/_T.e2x		Skeleton file for enc2xs
Encode/encode.h		Encode extension header file
JP/JP.pm		Encode extension
JP/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
KR/KR.pm		Encode extension
KR/Makefile.PL		Encode extension
MANIFEST		Encode extension
Makefile.PL		Encode extension makefile writer
README		Encode extension
Symbol/Makefile.PL     Encode extension
Symbol/Symbol.pm       Encode extension
TW/Makefile.PL	Encode extension
TW/TW.pm		Encode extension
bin/enc2xs	Encode module generator
bin/piconv	iconv by perl
bin/ucm2table	Table Generator for testing
bin/unidump	Unicode Dump like hexdump(1)
encengine.c		Encode extension
encoding.pm	Perl Pragmactic Module
lib/Encode/Alias.pm	        Encode extension
lib/Encode/CJKConstants.pm	Encode extension
lib/Encode/CN/HZ.pm		Encode extension
lib/Encode/Encoding.pm	Encode extension
lib/Encode/JP/2022_JP.pm	Encode extension
lib/Encode/JP/2022_JP1.pm	Encode extension
lib/Encode/JP/H2Z.pm		Encode extension
lib/Encode/JP/JIS.pm	Encode extension
lib/Encode/KR/2022_KR.pm	 Encode extension
lib/Encode/Supported.pod	Documents supported encodings
lib/Encode/Unicode.pm	Encode extension
lib/Encode/XS.pm		Encode extension
t/Aliases.t	Encode extension test
t/CN.t		Encode extension test
t/Encode.t		Encode extension test
t/JP.t		Encode extension test
t/KR.t		Encode extension test
t/TW.t		Encode extension test
t/encoding.t	encoding extension test
t/gb2312.euc	test data
t/gb2312.ref	test data
t/jisx0208.euc	test data
t/jisx0208.ref	test data
t/jisx0212.euc	test data
t/jisx0212.ref	test data
t/jperl.t	encoding extension test
t/ksc5601.euc	test data
t/ksc5601.ref	test data
t/unibench.pl	Unicode benchmark
ucm/8859-1.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-10.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-11.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-13.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-14.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-15.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-16.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-2.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-3.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-4.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-5.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-6.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-7.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-8.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/8859-9.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/adobeStdenc.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/adobeSymbol.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/adobeZdingbat.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/ascii.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/big5-hkscs.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/big5.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp037.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1006.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1026.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1047.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1250.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1251.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1252.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1253.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1254.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1255.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1256.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1257.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp1258.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp424.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp437.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp500.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp737.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp775.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp850.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp852.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp855.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp856.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp857.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp860.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp861.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp862.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp863.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp864.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp865.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp866.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp869.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp874.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp875.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp932.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp936.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp949.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/cp950.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/dingbats.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/euc-cn.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/euc-jp.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/euc-kr.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/gb12345.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/gb2312.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/gsm0338.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/hp-roman8.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/ir-165.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/jis0201.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/jis0208.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/jis0212.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/johab.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/koi8-f.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/koi8-r.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/koi8-u.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/ksc5601.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macArabic.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macCentEuro.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macChinsimp.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macChintrad.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macCroatian.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macCyrillic.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macDevanaga.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macDingbats.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macFarsi.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macGreek.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macGujarati.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macGurmukhi.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macHebrew.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macIceland.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macJapanese.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macKorean.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macROMnn.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macRUMnn.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macRoman.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macSami.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macSymbol.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macThai.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macTurkish.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/macUkraine.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/nextstep.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/posix-bc.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/shiftjis.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/symbol.ucm	Unicode Character Map
ucm/viscii.ucm	Unicode Character Map
